I learned git add ., git commit -m, git push, git fetch, git status, git pull, and how to resolve merge conflicts.

# Amazon Web Services - Route 53
- Use a domain name to represent your web application to make it easy to remember and secure.
- A domain name can be used to create DNS records that will map domain names to IP address (A records) or other domain names (CNAME records).
- DNS Records
    - Root Domain DNS Record = yourdomain
    - Subdomain DNS Record = *.yourdomain
        - "*" represents wildcard.
    - Both root domain DNS record and subdomain DNS record have a record type, A.
- Other Records Types
    - The name server (NS) record contains the names of the authoritative name servers that authorize the user to place DNS records in the DNS server. 
        - Those same authoritative name servers are listed with the registrar that the user leases their domain name from. 
        - That way the authoritative name server can verify that the DNS records and the DNS registration match and are authorized to represent the domain name when defining DNS records.
        - Otherwise, a hacker could just add DNS records and take over the user's domain name.
    - The start of authority (SOA) record provides contact information about the owner of the domain name.
- Acronyms and Terms
    - DNS = Domain Name System
    - NS = Name Server
    - SOA = Start of Authority

# HTTPS, TLS, and Web Certificates
- Usually, only websites that do commerce need a secure connection.
- The web moved from simple document servers (Web 1.0) to full on web applications (Web 2.0).
- Web 2.0 accepts information from users and displays that information within the application.
- Without a secure connection, anyone that has access to the network traffic, at any point, from the user's computer to the server handling the request could easily capture all the data sent in either direction.
- HTTPS and TLS
    - The secure version of HTTP is called Secure Hypertext Transport Protocol (HTTPS).
    - This is basically HTTP with a negotiated secure connection that happens before any data is exchanged.
    - Having a secure connection means that all the data is encrypted using the TLS protocol.
    - TLS is sometimes referred to by a now unsecure predecessor protocol named SSL.
    - TLS works by negotiating a shared secret that is then used to encrypt data.
    - "curl -v -s https://byu.edu > /dev/null"
        - The actual negotiation that happens can be seen by using the console browser based application "curl", along with the "-v" parameter to see the verbose output of the HTTPS exchange.
        - The "> /dev/null" redirection throws away the actual HTTP response, since we only care about the negotiation, by redirecting the output to the null device.
    - A core piece of the handshake of the negotiation is the exchange of a web certificate that identifies the domain name of the server creating the secure connection.
    - The browser will compare the certificate domain name to the one represented in the URL, and if they do not match, or the certificate is invalid or out of date, it will display a massive warning.
- Web Certificates
    - Web Certificates are generated by a trusted 3rd party using public/private key encryption.
    - The certificate issuer is responsible for verifying that the certificate owner actually owns the domain name represented by the certificate.
    - Once the user has a certificate for their domain name, the user can serve the certificate from their web server and then the browser can validate the certificate by using the public keys of the certificate issuer.
    - Caddy uses Let's Encrypt to generate a web certificate every time an HTTPS request is made for a domain name that Caddy does not have a web certificate for.
    - When this happens Caddy asks Let's Encrypt to verify that the domain for the requested certificate is actually owned by the requester.
    - Let's Encrypt does that by telling the requester to return a specific digitally signed response for a temporary URL when an HTTP request to the domain is made.
    - Let's Encrypt then makes the HTTP request, and if successful, issues the certificate to the requester.
- Modern browsers now expect web servers to exclusively use HTTPS for all communication.
- In fact, the next version of HTTP (v3) only supports secure connections.
- For this reason, the user should always support HTTPS for any web application that they build.
- The user can obtain and renew a web certificate by enabling the ACME protocol for their web server and communicating with Let's Encrypt to generate the needed certificates.
- This is not difficult to do, and many languages such as Rust, Node.js, or Go support this functionality by simply including an additional library.
- Caddy
    - Caddy has ACME support built into it by default.
    - By not specifying a port, the Caddy rule will serve up files using port 443 (HTTPS), and any request to port 80 (HTTP) will automatically redirect the browser to port 443. 
- Acronyms and Terms
    - HTTP = Non-Secure Hypertext Transport Protocol
    - HTTPS - Secure Hypertext Transport Protocol
    - TLS = Transport Layer Security
    - SSL = Secure Sockets Layer
    - IETF - Internet Engineering Task Force
    - ACME = Automatic Certificate Management Environment

# The Console
- Before the creation of graphical user interfaces, all computing systems were simple console environments consisting of a prompt for inputting a command and the display of the command output.
- All of the original programming tools ran as console applications.
- The console tradition is still actively used by professional developers and most programming tools execute within a console window.
- Also known as the command line, shell, or terminal, the console window is an essential web development tool.
- The console provides access to the file system and allows for the execution of command line applications.
- All operating systems come with a default console.
- In order for you to successfully use the console for web programming, it must be POSIX compliant.
- POSIX compliance means that it supports a standard set of console commands.
- Both Mac and Linus support POSIX.
- One of the primary purposes of a console application is to view the files on the computer.
- The files on a computer are organized into a tree structure of nodes called directories.
- At any given point in time, the console is located at one of the directories in the file system.
- The other primary purpose of the console is to execute commands.
- The input and output of commands can also be chained using special characters.
    - "|" = Take the output from the command on the left and pipe or pass it to the command on the right.
    - ">" = Redirect output to a file. Overwrites the file if it exists.
    - ">>" = Redirect output to a file. Appends if file exists.
- There are also keystrokes that have special meaning in the console.
    - CTRL-R = Use type ahead to find previous commands.
    - CTRL-C = Kill the currently running command
- Acronyms and Terms
    - POSIX = Portable Operating System Interface
- Commands
    - echo = output the parameters of the command
    - cd = change directory
    - mkdir = make directory
    - rmdir = remove directory
    - rm = remove file(s)
    - mv = move file(s)
    - cp = copy file(s)
    - ls = list files
    - curl = command line client URL browser
    - grep = regular expression search
    - find = find files
    - top = view running processes with CPU and memory usage
    - df = view disk statistics
    - cat = output the content of a file
    - less = interactively output the contents of a file
    - wc = count the words in a file
    - ps = view the currently running processes
    - kill = kill a currently running process
    - sudo = execute a command as a super user (admin)
    - ssh = create a secure shell on a remote computer
    - scp = securely copy files to a remote computer
    - history = show the history of commands
    - ping = check if a website is up
    - tracert - trace the connections to a website
    - dig = show the DNS information for a domain
    - man = look up a command in the manual
    - pwd = present working directory
